---
layout: post
title: "Haiti and the Common Good (#1)"
description: "Strife and suffering challenge the body yet the soul lives on."
comments: True
tags: [personal, haiti]
---

Going into Haiti, I had few if any concerns. Anytime I travel to places foreign to me, I remind myself that there are people who live there. People who despite my lack of understanding of their culture and how they live, continue to lead peaceful, engaging, and mostly satisfying lives. Luckily, happiness can still be found amongst the Haitian people and the struggles they face. There is still a certain pattern to most people's daily life. Parents work, students go to school (all in pristine matching colored outfits), families eat together, friends have fun, and people serve their community. Life may look different on the surface, but essentially the social dynamics familiar to my own daily life are mostly the same as those of Haiti. I am comforted by these similarities. Yet, I find it most exciting to dig through the differences and learn from what the Haitians can teach me.

Haiti, though rich with loving, caring, and community driven people, still has many people who suffer. The country with a poor economic insfrastructure and frequent government instability continues to slowly recover from Hurricane Matthew last October, the impact of which was amplified due to the continual recovery from the 7.0 magnitude earthquake in 2010. Parents can't find stable work, students can't afford school, families don't have food, and friends can be too sick to have fun. But people remain commited to their community. Everyone exemplifies selflessness in their lives and continues to serve their neighbor. Sellers work together inside the hectic markets, never underpricing the mangos of nearby stalls. Sons and daughters leave the comfort of home to work in the United States, who with pride send money home towards rebuilding their family's home. Celebrations of Ra-Ra still march the streets during lent where communities house traveling bands every week for the evening jubilee. All this giving takes place amongst people who oftentimes need assistance themselves. Regardless of the situation they're in, Haitians continue to work hard and maintain their vibrant culture. Their lives still have meaning. All people, regardless of circumstanct, always deserve the dignity and respect of a human person. Haiti reminded me that this never changes.

Alongside many Americans and others invested 

Yet, it still irks me when I look at all the luxuries I have with an American lifestyle. By comparison, Haitians have it rough. I am accustomed to frequent blackouts when abroad but only 2-4 hours a day of electricity seems extreme. Even though . But there is still the trash. Passerbys continue to add to the street piles of waste, making them even greater with a total lack of concern towards the impact that has. What did I do to de serve my way of life while the people of Haiti still struggle in a post disaster economy, where few social resources are available from the government.


At this point, perhaps a fitting reflection would be to reconsider your expectations of the immersion in light of your encounters in Haiti and the structural complexities thereof that have been revealed. Toward that end, you might reread your pre-departure essay for this assignment, which is to address one of the following as your blog entry #1:
Describe what was most disconcerting for you, and why 
Describe what person/image/encounter has left the most lasting impression on you, and why.
Describe what surprised you on the immersion, or ran counter to your expectations, and why that might be.
Describe how the immersion has affected your interior/spiritual life.